We are born onto this earth, starving for happiness. In our malnourished state, we discover that we work to consume food that we are deceived into believing will satiate our hunger, yet we come away feeling just as unsatisfied. We trick ourselves into larger portions of this unfilling food, and what’s worse, we don't even like the food. This is our relationship with happiness; the food that we consume that leaves us discontented is the goal in our life that we work hard to achieve, and, in the end, we feel just as unsatisfied as before. This powerful realization allowed me to construct a philosophy of happiness that has guided me for years. I have found that this cycle, of choosing to follow my desires over what brings me pleasure, has rarely lead to an increase in happiness, yet by reframing my understanding that desires fail to bring lasting happiness, I could begin to pursue that which does.
When I was thirteen, my best friend went to jail. He went to jail because he pursued what he wanted. He wanted to be financially independent from his abusive parents, and he decided to achieve this by selling drugs. As I watched him make more and more, even to the point where he could be financially independent, nothing changed. Despite not being an addict, his behavior struck me as that of one. He pursued bigger and bigger deals with a hunger, and it never made him happier. Years later, I began to recognize the same behavior of following my wants rather than my likes, expecting that it would bring happiness. It was this moment of recognition that gave me the opportunity to reframe how I perceived my desires. I began searching for the things that I wanted yet, brought me no happiness, and instead pursuing what I enjoyed doing. I was difficult to cut aspects of my life that I previously thought necessary and desired but, it was also relieving, as if I had shrugged off a burden that I was carrying, a burden to my happiness. Thus, I began to seek answers to this behavioral pattern I had recognized.
Professor Daniel Nettle, author of Happiness: The Science Behind Your Smile, is familiar with the concept of pursuing pleasure and desire. Nettle relates this relentless pursuit of desire to the manner drug addicts will do practically anything for another hit. Citing a study of hospitalized heroin addicts, in which they were told to press a lever three thousand times over the course of forty-five minutes upon which they would receive an injection that may or may not contain a dose of morphine.
At moderate doses of morphine, participants rated the injections as worthless and no good, and wouldn’t press the lever. At a very low concentration of the drug, they still rated the injection worthless and no good, but they still worked just as hard at lever pressing to get the solution injected as in the high-dose conditions. (Nettle 128)
Despite rating the lowest dose as worthless, it was still enough to rekindle the hunger of their desire. This reveals an important divide between our desires and pleasures. Akin to addicts, we work relentlessly for things that do not increase our happiness, leaving us simply wanting another hit, a small dose of our desire, such as a marginal pay raise; while it does not bring joy, it does produce the desire for more.
Insightful works of fiction can illustrate the choice to ignore what one finds happiness in,  instead of following one’s cravings; such as in Arthur Miller’s iconic play, Death of a Salesman, in which Willy Loman became a salesman rather than doing what brought him pleasure. Miller demonstrates how denying oneself the path to happiness by pursuing one's dreams leads to neither a happy nor fulfilling life. Willy dreams of the death of a salesman, where people come from all over to mourn his passing, yet after his suicide, at his funeral, it is only family and friend that surround his grave. It is in this moment that we see the distinction between Willy’s dreams and what fulfilled him:
CHARLEY: Yeah. He was a happy man with a batch of cement.
LINDA: He was so wonderful with his hands.
BIFF: He had the wrong dreams. All, all, wrong. (Miller 103)
Willy found joy in working with his hands, creating, building something that would outlast him. It is for this reason that in his final hours he retreats to the backyard to plant a garden; in his despair, he does what he enjoys. Willy dreamed of leaving a legacy behind him, yet refused to pursue the path that brought him joy, he hungered for something bigger.
Occasionally our pleasures and desires allow us to pursue what we want while achieving happiness. This fortunate situation is granted to Beneatha of Lorraine Hansberry’s play, A Raisin in the Sun. Beneatha is a complicated character and thus has many overlapping pleasures and desires; she wants to become a doctor, wants to and finds pleasure in reconnecting with the culture of Africa, wants to and finds pleasure in the idea of being with Asagai,a native Nigerian. Beneatha is given the chance to pursue all these when Asagai romantically asked her to come with him, to Africa, “three hundred years later the African Prince rose up out of the seas and swept the maiden back across the middle passage over which her ancestors had come” (Hansberry 81). Asagai sweeps Beneatha off her feet with his poetic marriage proposal, and the opportunity to practice medicine with him in Africa. When the opportunity presents itself so that your desires, and pleasures align, don’t be Willy Loman, pursue what you enjoy, and let it fulfill your desire.
Knowing now how the cycle works many readers may be asking themselves why it exists in the first place. The drive to work hard for joyless achievements is just as much a product of evolution as we are. Meaning that we are not meant to seek out happiness, we are meant to seek out what will best assist us to survive and reproduce. “The wanting system is supposed to enslave you, to make you maximize your reproductive success”(Nettle 154). We are driven to compete and look for every possible advantage by nature, rather than by choice. Evolutionarily speaking, we adapt to compete with those around us in order to give ourselves a better chance of survival. This begins with the comparison of ourselves to our peers, our competitors. If our competitor has a resource that we do not, we immediately begin to crave that resource, believing that it will bring happiness. Even that must still leave a sense of dissatisfaction or unhappiness, or we would miss other, potentially better, opportunities that would give us an advantage. Therefore, complete happiness is impossible in the long term, because our primal desire will remain unsatisfied. “Evolution’s purposes are served if it can trick us into working for things that are good for our fitness. It can do this by making us believe that those things bring happiness, and that happiness is what we want”(Nettle 168). By recognizing the deceit however, we can begin to reframe our perspective and catch things we are working for that leave us unsatisfied, and supplant them with activities that we know bring us joy.
The more we believe our happiness is based on our material possessions, financial status, or any other luxury, that we desire but gain little or no pleasure from, the more dissatisfied we will be. This is the trick our mind plays on us, drawing us in with the promise of happiness yet leaving us unfulfilled, hungry for more. By no fault of our own are we deceived, it is evolution that tricks us, pushing us to be increasingly reproductively fit, yet we are still we are deceived. Evolution does not care about happiness, thus even though it is difficult we must actively attempt to rewire how we perceive our desires, and pursue what ultimately brings us happiness. Through this process can put our hunger into perspective and learn not only to consume what we desire, but what we enjoy.
In the course of juxtaposing Lorraine Hansberry’s A Raisin in the Sun and  Arthur Miller’s Death of a Salesman, it becomes invaluable to consult Daniel Nettle, author of Happiness: the science behind your smile, and his theory of happiness to put into context the implications of these plays. Nettle finds that “happiness or unhappiness stem in large part from how we address what happens in the world, not what actually happens” (Nettle 92). Our perceptions, whether conscious or unconscious, define our world and subsequently our level of happiness and life satisfaction. We will find that Nettle’s claim, ties deeply into our own perception of how Hansberry and Miller utilize the imagery of sunlight.
	When envisioning happiness what do you see? In all probability, no matter what you visualized, it is your happy place; upon further reflection, you will find that this happy place is not dark and sullen, it’s bright and vibrant; it’s sunny. This is because there is a clear mental association of happiness and sunlight. A quick google image search of ‘happiness’ leads to countless pictures of people basking in the light of the sun, many who are literally leaping in the air for joy.
While this connection between sunlight and happiness appears inherently obvious-a majority of people feel happier when the weather is favorable. However, as we will see Nettle claim, most people are not aware of this as they consider their own personal happiness. Nettle points to an experiment orchestrated by Norbert Schwarz and his colleagues, where they would call and ask people about how satisfied they were with life on both rainy days and sunny days. Typically people reported higher self-satisfaction on sunny days unless their attention was drawn to the weather by the experimenter asking “‘How’s the weather down there?’Once the weather had been mentioned people realized that it was a plausible reason for their current mood, which they then adjusted by an appropriate amount in judging their overall satisfaction”(Nettle 35). While there is a connection between sunlight and happiness, we often do not perceive it when reflecting about our own life satisfaction. 
For the Lomans, a depressing scene is set before us from the very first page,  “We see a solid vault of apartment houses around the small, fragile-seeming home”(Miller 11) This imagery paints an impermeable wall around this ‘fragile-seeming home’ where all light is blocked by the apartments so that no sunlight can penetrate. For the Younger family, the living room is where there is a small window that is “The sole natural light the family may enjoy in the course of a day is only that which fights it’s way through this little window”(Hansberry 10). We can envision the small old apartment of the Youngers and this “grey light” permeating dimly through the dark(Hansberry 113). A sullen and depressing image indeed. 
This lack of light is all that our mind needs to unconsciously determine our outlook and perspective on not only the rest of this scene, but the rest of the play. First impressions are very important. While Miller never directly mentions ‘light’ at all in this introductory scene, he uses negative imagery to emphasize the consequences of the lack of light. He paints our view of the house by first mentioning the “solid vault of apartment houses”  surrounding this tiny house(Miller 11). We are already unconsciously seeing it draped in darkness. This is only later solidified in the second act when Willy mentions planting a garden and his wife, Linda, reminds him that, “Not enough sun gets back there. Nothing will grow.” (Miller 72). 
Hansberry is more direct in her play when linking sunlight to happiness. When Mama says she bought a house and is being interrogated by the family on the specifics of it, the final question she gets asked, as if to emphasize it, was when Ruth asked her, ”Is there - is there a whole lot of sunlight?” to which Mama replied “Yes child there’s a whole lot of sunlight,” (Hansberry 82-83). The importance of there being sunlight, to Ruth, is not foremost, but subconsciously it does matter to her and her perceived happiness. This link of sunlight to happiness is only underscored later on when Walter loses all the money his mother trusted him with. At a time when they are convinced that they are going to be stuck in that apartment for the rest of their lives, Beneatha dramatically exclaims, “Well -- we are all dead now. All the talk about dreams and sunlight that goes  on in this house. It’s all dead now,”(Hansberry 125). The death of dreams and sunlight, one that which they believe will bring them happiness if achieved, and the other that, as Nettle shows, will subconsciously make them happier. And yet it is put to death, in the dark. 
It is not until we have seen the darkness that we can know the light. This idea plays a subtle and important role in both plays: throughout despair there is still happiness to be found. We that not only does this aligns not only with what Nettle argued earlier, that our happiness is formed by our reality,  but with another claim of his; “It is necessary to have the possibility of unhappiness for happiness to mean anything,” (Nettle 172). Unhappiness puts our happiness into perspective and allows us to look for little sources of happiness, even in the worst of times. It is through our unhappiness, that we find the strength to find the light. 
The idea of finding light in the dark, of finding strength in times of trouble, is extremely subtle throughout both plays. Nettle’s first claim, that our happiness is created by how we choose to perceive our reality, is supported in both pieces of literature. Hansberry displays this with Ruth, who is a rather proficient at finding a little source of joy throughout her day. One moment her strength stands out in particular is just after Walter walked out when confronted with her pregnancy, and the threat of an abortion, to return drunk Ruth still little joy still. “Warm, ain’t it? I mean for September. Just like they always say about Chicago weather:  If it’s too hot or cold for, just wait a minute and it’ll change. (She  smiles happily at this cliche of cliches),”(Hansberry 70). Ruth demonstrates to us Nettle’s initial point: how we address the world, not what is truly occurring, determines our happiness. Moreover, in Willy’s final hours he hears Ben , his late brother, promise him that, “The jungle is dark, but full of diamonds,”(Miller 134). A diamond, in this case, is a metaphor, a physical object we can hold onto, that in common culture brings joy. Even in the absence of light (happiness), there is an opportunity to attain it. All we have to do is open our eyes.	
While it might not seem relevant that happiness translates to light, it is crucial to our understanding of the plays. In both plays, they are surrounded in a state of unhappiness, yet there comes a point where a character finds an opportunity for happiness, and makes a crucial decision that changes the entire outcome of the play. We often do not realize how intrinsic our happiness ties to sunlight, yet it is our perceptions, even the subconscious ones, that define our reality These subconscious perceptions bring us happiness when we are exposed to light in order to find a small respite in the world of darkness.  Finding the strength in the darkness to find light, diamonds, happiness, choosing to perceive what is positive instead of negative. There might not seem that a difference exists between focusing on the light rather than perceiving it, but Hansberry would argue, and so would Miller, and so would Nettle, that there is all the difference in the world.
It is no secret that there is a general sense of unhappiness among first year students at Case, but where does this stem from, and what can we do about it? As Professor Daniel Nettle argues in his book, Happiness: the science behind your smile, we are not unhappy because of our environment, but rather because of our nature. Happiness, and consequently unhappiness, is due in large part to how we address our world. The majority of people rank themselves above the average level of happiness; when asked how happy they project to be in the future, the bulk of people predicted an increase in happiness. This not only means that most people are happy, but that most people are optimists. However, people consistently tend to overestimate the effect their decisions will have on their happiness. While in reality, according to Nettle, happiness is relatively constant. 
In this regard, it is vital to remember we are products of evolution. Meaning that we are not meant to seek out happiness, we are meant to seek out what will best assist us to survive and reproduce. We are driven to compete and look for every possible advantage by nature, rather than by choice. Evolutionarily, we  adapt to compete with those around us in order to give ourselves a better chance of survival. This begins with the comparison of ourselves to our peers, our competitors. If our competitor has a resource that we do not, we immediately begin to crave that resource, believing that it will bring happiness. But even that must still leave a sense of dissatisfaction or unhappiness, or we would miss other, potentially better, opportunities that would give us an advantage. Therefore, complete happiness is impossible in the long term, as that we are driven by our biology to be unsatisfied. 
This is not a bad thing. Unhappiness acts as our ‘alarm system’ to tell us something is wrong and requires immediate attention. If we were to ignore immediate or imminent problems we would not survive long. Our unhappiness is a necessary byproduct to ensure our survival, not just as an individual, but as a species. However, this constant dissatisfaction and craving for more can loop, especially with those of a competitive nature. Nettle carefully points this out, claiming that “people could be so preoccupied with wanting things that they could forget to do things they enjoy” (152).
	Nettle’s theory of happiness is tremendously useful in this regard because it sheds light on the high level of discontent experienced by first-year students here at Case, by illustrating to us the probable sources of this unhappiness. It helps to step back for a moment to look at the type of student generally accepted here. Those admitted are some of the most competitive, and 
highest achieving students from around the world. Here they are in an environment of equals, where everyone was a high achiever, and the curriculum is harder than they are used to. If what Nettle argues is correct, that our happiness is relative to the happiness and success of those around us, then it is understandable why Case students initially feel unhappy. They are no longer the one prized pupil of their school; they are merely another insignificant tadpole in a depthless ocean. 
	Additionally, this explains why unhappiness is only a prevalent issue within first-year students. To clarify, I do not mean that those who are depressed drop out, I mean that those who feel an increase in unhappiness within the first year adjust to their new environment and ‘social rank’ among their competition, and revert to their normal level of happiness. As Nettle predicted, students adapt to their new environment and find new ways to compete, to thrive, to succeed. 
The anxiety and stress experienced by first years, mobilizes the body's resources so that they can address the high-intensity workload that has been set upon them. It is only natural to feel anxious and stressed within the first semester of college, especially in comparison to a non-stressful event such as being accepted into Case. As Nettle states: “people adapt quite quickly to positive changes in life circumstances, and then return to to close to their previous level of happiness”(166).  In other words, while we are pleased by being accepted, it does not last long as we are always looking beyond to find the next big thing. 
	So what can we do? The biggest thing to consider here is that students here are inherently driven to compete. If given the option, the majority would still take on the same amount of work if they believed it would give them an advantage over everyone else. Thus, asking students to take on less work is not a likely solution. Instead, recall Nettle’s claim, that the wanting cycle drove unhappiness to further unhappiness. Instead, encouraging students to pursue paths that brings enjoyment and happiness. Emphasizing joining a club or sport that they would enjoy participating in. Incorporating Nettle’s claim, that “happiness stems mainly not from the world itself, but from the way people address the world” (113)  allowing students to lift their eyes from the immutable and open them to the broader horizon.
