null peers, our competitors. if our competitor has a resource that we do not, we immediately begin to crave that resource, believing that it will bring happiness. even that must still leave a sense of dissatisfaction or unhappiness, or we would miss other, potentially better, opportunities that would give us an advantage. therefore, complete happiness is impossible in the long term, because our primal desire will remain unsatisfied. “evolution’s purposes are served if it can trick us into working for things that are good for our fitness. it can do this by making us believe that those things bring happiness, and that happiness is what we want”(nettle 168). by recognizing the deceit however, we can begin to reframe our perspective and catch things we are working for that leave us unsatisfied, and supplant them with activities that we know bring us joy. the more we believe our happiness is based on our material possessions, financial status, or any other luxury, that we desire but gain little or no pleasure from, the more dissatisfied we will be. this is the trick our mind plays on us, drawing us in with the promise of happiness yet leaving us unfulfilled, hungry for more. by no fault of our own are we deceived, it is evolution that tricks us, pushing us to be increasingly reproductively fit, yet we are still we are deceived. evolution does not care about happiness, thus even though it is difficult we must actively attempt to rewire how we perceive our desires, and pursue what ultimately brings us happiness. through this process can put our hunger into perspective and learn not only to consume what we desire, but what we enjoy. in the course of juxtaposing lorraine hansberry’s a raisin in the sun and arthur miller’s death of a salesman, it becomes invaluable to consult daniel nettle, author of happiness: the science behind your smile, and his theory of happiness to put into context the implications of these plays. nettle finds that “happiness or unhappiness stem in large part from how we address what happens in the world, not what actually happens” (nettle 92). our perceptions, whether conscious or unconscious, define our world and subsequently our level of happiness and life satisfaction. we will find that nettle’s claim, ties deeply into our own perception of how hansberry and miller utilize the imagery of sunlight. when envisioning happiness what do you see? in all probability, no matter what you visualized, it is your happy place; upon further reflection, you will find that this happy place is not dark and sullen, it’s bright and vibrant; it’s sunny. this is because there is a clear mental association of happiness and sunlight. a quick google image search of ‘happiness’ leads to countless pictures of people basking in the light of the sun, many who are literally leaping in the air for joy. while this connection between sunlight and happiness appears inherently obvious-a majority of people feel happier when the weather is favorable. however, as we will see nettle claim, most people are not aware of this as they consider their own personal happiness. nettle points to an experiment orchestrated by norbert schwarz and his colleagues, where they would call and ask people about how satisfied they were with life on both rainy days and sunny days. typically people reported higher self-satisfaction on sunny days unless their attention was drawn to the weather by the experimenter asking “‘how’s the weather down there?’once the weather had been mentioned people realized that it was a plausible reason for their current mood, which they then adjusted by an appropriate amount in judging their overall satisfaction”(nettle 35). while there is a connection between sunlight and happiness, we often do not perceive it when reflecting about our own life satisfaction. for the lomans, a depressing scene is set before us from the very first page, “we see a solid vault of apartment houses around the small, fragile-seeming home”(miller 11) this imagery paints an impermeable wall around this ‘fragile-seeming home’ where all light is blocked by the apartments so that no sunlight can penetrate. for the younger family, the living room is where there is a small window that is “the sole natural light the family may enjoy in the course of a day is only that which fights it’s way through this little window”(hansberry 10). we can envision the small old apartment of the youngers and this “grey light” permeating dimly through the dark(hansberry 113). a sullen and depressing image indeed. this lack of light is all that our mind needs to unconsciously determine our outlook and perspective on not only the rest of this scene, but the rest of the play. first impressions are very important. while miller never directly mentions ‘light’ at all in this introductory scene, he uses negative imagery to emphasize the consequences of the lack of light. he paints our view of the house by first mentioning the “solid vault of apartment houses” surrounding this tiny house(miller 11). we are already unconsciously seeing it draped in darkness. this is only later solidified in the second act when willy mentions planting a garden and his wife, linda, reminds him that, “not enough sun gets back there. nothing will grow.” (miller 72). hansberry is more direct in her play when linking sunlight to happiness. when mama says she bought a house and is being interrogated by the family on the specifics of it, the final question she gets asked, as if to emphasize it, was when ruth asked her, ”is there - is there a whole lot of sunlight?” to which mama replied “yes child there’s a whole lot of sunlight,” (hansberry 82-83). the importance of there being sunlight, to ruth, is not foremost, but subconsciously it does matter to her and her perceived happiness. this link of sunlight to happiness is only underscored later on when walter loses all the money his mother trusted him with. at a time when they are convinced that they are going to